{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c16078\c16078\c16078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3                                               
\f1\b Machine Learning_Assignment_02\

\f0\b0 \

\f1\b Name: Jakkampudi Venu Madhavi\
StudentID: 101103662\

\f0\b0 \
1.\
Write a difference between statistical tools that are used for prediction and machine learning tools that are used for classification. Examples are required. \

\f1\b Ans:
\f0\b0 \uc0\u8232 The major difference between machine learning and statistics is their purpose. Machine learning models are designed to make the most accurate predictions possible. Statistical models are designed for inference about the relationships between variables.\
\
2.\
Consider the following:\uc0\u8232 Labels: d1=day1, d2=day2, output(
\f2\i o\dn6 i 
\f0\i0 \up0 =\{
\f2\i S
\f0\i0 ,
\f2\i R
\f0\i0 \},whereS=Sunny and R=Rainy P(d1=S) = 0.9\uc0\u8232 P(d2=S|d1=R) = 0.2\u8232 P(d2=S|d1=S) = 0.6\u8232 Compute P(d2= S), P(d2=R) and P(d3=S) \

\f1\b Ans: \
p(d2=S): \
	p(d2=s/d1=s)*p(d1=s)+p(d2=S/d1=R)*p(d1=R)\
	=0.6*0.9+0.2*0.1\
	=0.54+0.02\
	=0.56\
p(d2=R):\
	1-p(d2=S)\
	=1-0.56\
	=0.44\
p(d3=S):\
	p(d2=S/d2=S)*P(d2=S)+p(d3=S/d2=R)*p(d2=R)\
	=0.6*0.56+0.2*0.44\uc0\u8232 	=0.336+0.088\
	=0.424\

\f0\b0 3.\
Classify either the following text is a Regular (R) email (Spam (S) email) [Hint. compute probability]: \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Dear Friend Money Call Phone Number \

\f0\b0 \uc0\u8232 Dataset:\u8232 Number of regular emails = 10\u8232 Number of spam emails = 6\u8232 Regular texts (histogram or frequency) = Dear (10), Friend (4), Money (2), Call (1), Phone Number (6) \
Regular texts (histogram or frequency) = Dear (12), Friend (2), Money (12), Call (10), Phone Number (10)\
 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b P(Dear Friend Money Call Phone Number|R) = ? \
P(Dear Friend Money Call Phone Number|S) = ? \
\uc0\u8232 
\f0\b0 Can you also write whether it is a non-supervised learning? \

\f1\b Ans:\
\

\f0\b0 P(R)=10/16=0.625\
P(S)=6/16=0.375\

\f1\b P(Dear Friend Money Call Phone Number|R) :\

\f0\b0 \
P(Dear/Dataset)=10/(10+4+2+1+6)=10/23=0.434\
P(Friend/Dataset)=4/23=0.173\
P(Money/Dataset)=2/23=0.0869\
P(Call/Dataset)=1/23=0.0434\
P(Phone Number)=6/23=0.26\

\f1\b P(Dear Friend Money Call Phone Number|R)
\f0\b0 \
	
\f1\b =P(Dear/Dataset)*P(Friend/Dataset)*P(Money/Dataset)*P(Call/Dataset)*P(Phone 		   	Number)*P(R).  \
	=0.434*0.173*0.0869*0.0434*0.26*0.625\
	=0.00004601\
\
P(Dear Friend Money Call Phone Number|S) :\

\f0\b0 P(Dear/Dataset)=12/46=0.26\
P(Friend/Dataset)=2/46=0.0434\uc0\u8232 P(Money/Dataset)=12/46=0.0434\
P(Call/Dataset)=10/46=0.217\
P(Phone Number)=10/46=0.217\

\f1\b P(Dear Friend Money Call Phone Number|S)\
	= P(Dear/Dataset)*P(Friend/Dataset)*P(Money/Dataset)*P(Call/Dataset)*P(Phone 		   	Number)*P(S). \
	=0.26*0.0434*0.0434*0.217*0.217
\f0\b0 \
	
\f1\b = 0.000008625
\f0\b0 \
\
\
\
\
4.\
Generate 100 random coordinate points (2D data representing height (h) and weight (w)) and label them a class: \'91kid\'92. Follow exact same procedure for generating 100 data for another class: \'91adult\'92. Make sure that they are not completely separated. Train 80% them using Gaussian classify and compute their prior probabilities (for both classes). Test the models using remaining 20% of the data and check whether you build your model right (hint: posterior probability can help you compute this). \uc0\u8232 It is required to have complete Python source code (in Jupyter Notebook) and submit your final pdf after compiling your code. \u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa293\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf4 \cb1 Ans: \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl24\slmult1\sa293\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa293\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \page }